**Agenda for call 2022-01-10**

\* SWG needs to go public: what do we need to do? *(Advertise the group
and its charter in the usual social media channels, especially Discourse
and Reddit, with the charter in a GitHub repo. CD to do.)*

\* We agreed in the last meeting that we should be tracking upcoming
breaking changes to the

ecosystem. How do we go about doing this? *(Gentle pushback from a
limited discussion of this proposal, contrary to opinion expressed on
previous call in December.)*

\* Do we need a better definition of breaking change than that provided
by the PVP?

*(This does not appear to be a priority issue.)*

\* Discussion of /Adapting to a new version of GHC, way faster/ (see
below for link):

\+ Do we want to do it? *(Probably, but starting with a simpler scheme
that focuses on making the patches available as an overlay -- what this
space.)*

\+ How much do we do? *(To be discussed on the next call.)*

**Discussion points from the meeting:**

-   "Fellow Jitster"/Bodigrim says that he'd prefer GHC to break stuff
    > less often. Acknowledges that 100% back-compat is not desirable.
    > SPJ asks for a dozen concrete examples to illustrate what Bodigrim
    > has in mind.

-   Pepe thinks we'll always have such changes. More predictable
    > schedule would be helpful.

-   Syd suggested a one-version back-compat policy. (SPJ: not sure what
    > this means.)

-   Keeping up with GHC proposals is work. (All agree.)

-   Better *signalling* of breaking changes might be helpful.

-   GHC.X.hackage enables volunteers to contribute; this is good.

-   Another idea:

    -   Annual LTS release \-- lower the cost on library authors by
        > expecting them mainly to update to the LTS release

    -   Plus six-monthly bleeding-edge release? Supported principally by
        > GHC.X.hackage. Some participants saw no point in this.

    -   Who might dislike a slower release cadence?

        -   Users waiting for critical fixes \[but should they not be
            > backported?\]

        -   GHC authors wanting to get their latest feature in

> Idea: the Stability Working Group could conduct some kind of opinion
> gathering to discover what release cadence the community would like.

-   Andrew. If we could have a yearly **dependable rhythm** where you
    > know the target dates well ahead of time, it means you can trim
    > back the scope of the release to make the dates with the quality
    > level you want, rather than trying to stabilize whatever can get
    > into the main branch before you fork.

-   Maybe GHC could prioritise *predictability* (timing wise) more
    > highly, even if it means making releases with known bugs.

-   Chris: should the stability working group gather a record of
    > breaking changes? And maybe guidance about how to adapt. SPJ:
    > danger of over-reach here, and doing something we'll find it hard
    > to sustain; need to start with something modest and achievable.
