SWG 2022-10-03
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-09-19.md)

## Agenda
- Left from last time
  - [CLC proposal to warn on `head`/`tail`](https://github.com/haskell/core-libraries-committee/issues/87) would break users of `-Werror`.
- New items
  - Organizing impact as discussed in this [thread](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/34#issuecomment-1247908856)
- Updates on in-progress work
  - [GHC.X.Hackage second draft](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/27)
  - [GHC tick-tock releases](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/34)
	- Last time we said this needs revision or closure, did this happen?
  - [Update on Language/compiler features to help stability](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/jeFTSfj9SRun6ywmj1Tqcw?view)
  - [Exposing package internals](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/528)
  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
- GHC API: following the Haskell Implementors Workshop and Haskell Symposium, David C offered to convene a working group to work out what kind of more stable GHC API would be most useful -- GHC as a library.
    - At the moment it is not clear what the GHC API *is* (except for "every module in GHC" which is unhelpful).
    - Having a clear API would make it much easier to use, much easier for GHC devs to know what APIs are public (and hence with a high stablity threshold) and which are entirely internal to GHC (and hence can be changed at will).
    - We hope that this group's product will be a useful resource to GHC development going forward, and that the group can serve as a source of feedback

## Notes of meeting

- [CLC proposal to warn on `head`/`tail`](https://github.com/haskell/core-libraries-committee/issues/87) would break users of `-Werror`.
    - How concerned should be we about breaking libraries that use `-Werrror`?
    - GHC proposal about [user-defined-warnings](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/454)
    - GHC proposal about [Warning pragmas with categories](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/541) This would allow users to disable *specific* warnings (eg. those for head and tail).
    - Our role: we could (say) identify a GHC Proposal that would really help to smooth the path for otherwise-sensible CLC proposals.

- Organizing impact as discussed in this [thread](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/34#issuecomment-1247908856)
    - Can we provide a framework for considering impact to the community?
    - Outcome: a markdown file in our repo.
    - Include: a list of implied priorities for each "slice" of users.
    - David will create the file; Trevis will make the "list of implied priorities"

- [GHC.X.Hackage second draft](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/27).
    - No new developments; awaiting Ben.
    - But a putative consensus that Something Should Be Done, and roughly what.
    - David will talk to Ben about what to do next

- [GHC tick-tock releases](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/34).
    - No consensus of "user voice" has emerged here.  So let's just park this (unless Ben wants to pursue it).

- GHC API
    - Have a separate `ghc-api` package?   Or a subset of modules in the `ghc` package that are advertised as stable.
        - An issue driving this is that ghc the library and ghc the application share versions.
    - Could we collect from the community which parts of ghc are used?
    - How does this group interact with the new working group?

- [Update on Language/compiler features to help stability](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/jeFTSfj9SRun6ywmj1Tqcw?view)

- [Exposing package internals](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/528)
    - Neither Simon nor Richard has enough cycles to actively push this.
    - There have been surprisingly mixed reactions
    - Several people have said "just use a convention" e.g. "it's unstable if it has `Internal` in the module name"
    - SPJ's suggestion: park this pending more user pressure.  Encourage the GHC folk articulate a policy about what is public API for `ghc-prim` and `base` libraries.
    - Trevis has ideas, but is unsure how to amend the proposal to fit or if we should open new proposal(s).

- GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
