# SWG 2022-03-07 Agenda

- Update on the GHC.X.hackage proposal
- Update on GHC tick-tock releases
- Update on [Cabal and Cabal-syntax split](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/pull/7620#issuecomment-914180574,%20%20%20%20%20https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/7974)
- Look at proposal for helping aeson transition seen at [aeson #932](https://github.com/haskell/aeson/pull/932) and [stability #9](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/issues/9)
- Discuss Maintainership standards [stability #7](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/issues/7)
- Discuss focus on GHC vs the rest of the community

## Notes


- Trevis taking over as chair -- including turning these notes into our Github record and publishing to Discourse.  Thank you!
  - Donâ€™t forget haskell cafe


- HF has made an offer to a GHC DevOps person; they may not be able to start for some months, but it's a big step forward.


- GHC.X.Hackage proposal.  [HF Tech Track proposal](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/27) submitted by Ben.
  - ToDo: Ben will make a Discourse post about it.
  - Seeking community feedback and consensus; and in due course community participation in creating GHC.X.Hackage patches, parties, hackathons.
  - Holding the token: Ben.


- GHC tick-tock releases. [Sketch proposal here.](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/2aHzr6aTQEiDlNCliKaCYg#)
  - Thought: Make a HF Tech Track proposal?
  - As a way to seek community feedback and consensus
  - Make explicit: not seeking funding.
  - Perhaps say: more patch-level releases, even just with documentation fixes.
  - Holding the token: Ben.


- Cabal/cabal-syntax.
  - Cabal folk have agreed to re-export all of 'cabal-syntax' via 'cabal', to reduce discontinuities.
  - Thinking about how to encourage/incentivise clients who only use the cabal-syntax API to depend on cabal-syntax not cabal.
  - We can now drop this from our agenda, with thanks to the cabal folk for being so receptive.


- Learning from package releases document, and aeson
  - Hoping to incrementally develop this document.
  - We won't publicise it (except via these meeting notes) until we have a few more case studies, so it seems less of a criticism of aeson (which it isn't).
  - Adam will talk to Oleg about getting a migration guide and shim package done.


- Package standards (Richard's proposal)
  - Idea: policing such a system might be hard; a self-certifying system might be less hard.
  - Invite Richard to seek feedback from the community on Discourse that can ultimately lead, or not, to a HF TT Proposal.
  - Which groups care the most, authors? Users? nobody?
  - We can use this level of interest to guide how vigorously to pursue this.
  - Holding the token: Trevis
