# **SWG 2022-02-21 Agenda**

-   Update on the GHC.X.hackage proposal

-   Relationship with HFTT

-   Update on GHC tick-tock releases

-   What can we learn from Aeson 2.0 (followup)

-   Discuss [Cabal and Cabal-syntax split](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/pull/7620#issuecomment-914180574,%20%20%20%20%20https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/7974)

-   Maintainership standards
    [https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/issues/7](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/issues/7)

## Notes

-   Simon: Should our discussions go through the tech track process?

    -   Overall consensus: avoid re-inventing the wheel; let\'s use the
        TT process as our mechanism for consulting the community.

    -   Let's try it in the case of GHC.X.Hackage

-   GHC.X.Hackage:

    -   No motion yet, will try to get to this in the next week

    -   Next step: **Ben**: open an MR against tech-track

-   GHC tick-tock releases

    -   **Chris & Ben**: work on a proposal (in a google doc)

-   Aeson-2.0 (continuing from last week):

    -   Last week it was suggested that aeson-1.0 should have started
        the interface changes to allow smoother upgrade path

    -   Continuing now as Adam, an aeson maintainer, is now here

    -   SPJ question: what is our role here? What is the problem we are
        trying to solve? Are we developing a proposal? Or what?

    -   Answer: expected outcome is a short \"war-story\" report that we
        can share with the community, making suggestions for the
        future that would help ameliorate the costs of change.
        **Chris** will draft this. Adam: maybe we can make it less
        Aeson-specific, less like accusing a hard-working colleague.
        E.g. articulate the \"general principle\" in the cabal item
        next \-- or \"Guidelines for package maintainers\".

-   Cabal and cabal-syntax split

    -   [https://github.com/haskell/cabal/pull/7620](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/pull/7620)
        ,
        [https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/7974](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/7974)

    -   Parser for .cabal files is in a new package, cabal-syntax

    -   Package cabal depends on package cabal-syntax

    -   But cabal does not re-export cabal-syntax; hence presumably a
        major version bump (since it slims down the cabal API)

    -   So some packages that currently depend on cabal will now need to
        depend on {cabal, cabal-syntax}; others can depend only on
        cabal (a smaller and more stable API).

    -   Tom argues: make a meta-package that unions {cabal-syntax,
        cabal-core} that keeps the same API, but encourage people to
        depend only on cabal-core if that\'s all they need. (There is
        a payoff for doing so, at a time of your choosing, because it
        means you depend on a smaller and stabler API.)

    -   General principle: provide opportunities for more refined
        dependencies, but try not to use API breakage to force people
        to take action at a time they may not choose.

    -   Action **Mikolaj** to take back these suggestions to the Cabal
        team, and (if they wish) initiate a dialogue. Ben has posted
        on [[the issue tracker here](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/7974#issuecomment-1047057577)

-   Richard's suggestion
    [https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/issues/7](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/issues/7)

    -   Opt-in = good. We can judge through uptake.

    -   What is the incentive to join in? One answer: get Hackage to
        sort/filter based on badge. (A form of SEO.)

    -   A concern: varying opinions about some metrics, e.g. testsuite
        coverage.

    -   Syd: problem is not too many packages, but rather problems with
        packages themselves.

    -   Tom: good idea in principle. Details in Richard\'s proposal are
        pretty tentative.

    -   Syd: objective metrics are helpful, not an opaque authority
        handing out gold stars. Subjective measures (e.g. upvotes) in
        Hackage have not worked.

    -   Rate and recency of commits is a relevant metric. \[Albeit
        fakeable.\]

    -   We should involve Hackage maintainers/trustees before going to a
        HF TT proposal.

    -   Who would like to lead? We could ask Richard, but he is probably
        over-subscribed. If so, **Adam** will drive, consulting
        Richard.
