SWG 2022-11-28
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-11-14.md)

## Agenda & Notes

### New items

  - Any volunteers to run next meeting? Trevis will be on vacation
    - David to run
  - Also holiday/end of year
	- Skipping meeting that would have fallen on December 26th.
	- Trevis to cancel meeting invite

### Updates on in-progress work
  - GHC API discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
      - Previously holding the token: David
      - No progress
      - Holding the token: David
  - [Update on Language/compiler features to help stability](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/jeFTSfj9SRun6ywmj1Tqcw?view)
      - Previously holding the token: David
      - Need to get a quote for some of this
      - David has meeting for us.
      - Asking for implementation of [this](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/blob/master/proposals/0134-deprecating-exports-proposal.rst)
        - Of all the things suggested our our [Language/compiler features to help stability](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/jeFTSfj9SRun6ywmj1Tqcw?view) page, this is the only one that is ready, and cheap-looking.
        - This already has an accepted proposal
        - Implementation tracked at [#4879](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/4879), although it needs to be updated to reflect the current state of the proposal

      - Simon and David to ask GHC devs for volunteers
      - Holding the token: David+Simon

  - [Creating and maintaining a set of hlint rules to promote stability](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/pull/14)
      - Previously holding the token: Trevis
      - Submitting a feature request soon
	  - Holding the token: Trevis

  - Bulletin discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
      - Previously holding the token: Chris
      - No progress

  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
      - Previously holding the token: Chris
      - No progress

  - What is the stable  API of base
    - CLC has said *all* of the exposed modules
    - Can we mark all of the modules with the stability haddock field?
    - Related: Namespace with Internal modules.
    - Zurihac project?  Go through the 232 exposed modules and categorise them as
        - Should be exposed
        - Should not be exposed
        - Needs further attention
            - look at API function by function
            - identify the subset that should be exposed
            - maybe make new modules for these exposed ones

    - More generally, a package may well want to expose "internal" modules, say for testing frameworks; but those internal modules should not be subject to the PVP; and clients should not expect to able to rely on their stablility.
        - Perhaps having `Internal` in the name?  This is a widely used convention.  But then the PVP should say this.  This idea is tracked as https://github.com/haskell/pvp/issues/8
        - Ben will open a MR.
        - c.f. [Opaleye conventions](https://github.com/tomjaguarpaw/haskell-opaleye#internal-modules)


### Parked for expected absence of token holder
