SWG 2022-05-02
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-18.md)

## Agenda
- Updates on in progress work
  - [GHC.X.Hackage](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/27) update
  - Update on GHC tick-tock releases
  - [Update on Language/compiler features to help stability](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/jeFTSfj9SRun6ywmj1Tqcw?view)
- Language Extensions
  - [Removing Language Extensions](https://discourse.haskell.org/t/could-ghc-remove-old-extensions/4416/31)
  - Privately asked to bring up points on extensions:
    - Would it be possible to slow the addition of extensions as they are increasingly burdensome?
    - Some extensions are deprecated or experimental, can we mark them as such to help discourage widespread use and then reduce pain from change or removal?
    - How can we ensure a codebase does not have deprecated extensions and how can we help spread that in the community?
- (if there is time) Intro to the Community Maintenance/haskell party project

## Notes

- [GHC.X.Hackage](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/27) update
    - Implementation hoping to delegate to Bryan
    - Using foliage
    - Holding the token: Ben
- Update on GHC tick-tock releases
    - 9.4 first release starting on time for the 6 month schedule of current policy
        - This should be broadcast more widely to the community.
    - Holding the token: Ben

- [Update on Language/compiler features to help stability](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/jeFTSfj9SRun6ywmj1Tqcw?view)
    - Holding the token: Trevis
- Language Extensions
    - Discourse discussion
        - Point at ghc2021
    - Extensions stability
        - Add to users guide a field to say:
            - if extension is considered stable
            - is eligible to be included in a future standard (ghc 2021)
            - Opened ticket: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/21475
        - Holding the token: Trevis
    - Warnings could be added for:
        - Deprecated extensions
        - Not stable extensions
        - Outside of ghc2021
        - Opened ticket for `Rank2Types`: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/21474

- Intro to the Community Maintenance/Haskell Party Project
    - Lots of not well maintained packages
    - Very positive response
    - Should this group be an affiliation with HF? Perhaps not
    - Next steps (Adam):
        - Add proposal to stability repo
        - Post to discourse
