# SWG 2022-02-07 Agenda

  * Update on the GHC.X.hackage proposal
  * Update on advertising the group
  * Is GHC stable? (see below)
  * What can we learn from Aeson 2.0 (see below)

## Is GHC Stable?

Here is a private exchange between me and somebody else (person **X**) responsible for maintaining community infrastructure just recently.

  [**ME**]
  >Could you say a bit more about ‘_regarding future versions of GHC: I usually want to err on the side of stability, but i don't think that perspective is terribly compatible with GHC development anymore_’? What do think has changed, and when did it start?

  [**X**]
  > idk really; GHC 8.10 had quite a few releases (up to 8.10.7) and didn't really feel "stable" or "reliable" until it got fairly far along; 9.0 looks like it's gonna stop at 9.0.2, and it's unclear how quickly development will proceed on 9.2; what i mean by that is GHC 9.2.2 still isn't out even though 9.2.1 was released in October
  >
  > IIRC 9.2.1 has some known issues (the only ones i know of are with codegen or FFI stuff, particularly on macOS ARM), but even so ~3 months without a point release feels longer than expected

I think it is relevant and useful for us to think about whether this is just a moment we are going through and whether there is anything we can do to manage such disruptive phases.

Please note, I am a huge fan of GHC central and the amazing job they do. I am more concerned about the pressures they are being put under and ways we could manage that so that (1) people in the community (high information people also responsible for maintaining critical infrastructure) do not feel the core tools are unstable and (2) the GHC core tools team do not feel perpetually under pressure.

In particular can we identify particular releases that everyone should try and focus on supporting and regard the others as 'work in progress' towards the next stable release. In the current situation I would regard the 8.10 series as our focus for stability. Before that it would have been the 8.6 series. I think this is the way the community actually has been working for quite some time, but because we don't coordinate around the reality people are being put under unnecessary pressure due to unrealistic expectations.

## What can we learn from Aeson 2.0

It is clear that the recent changes to Aeson are proving hard work to propagate through the ecosystem. If we had a do-ever (assuming we were tasked with maintaining Aeson) would we do anything differently?

Again, I am not trying to be mean to the Aeson maintainers! Actually I have picked to of my very favourite Haskell engineering teams to look at these issues. The aim here is to try and get a better understanding of what is going on and help make the situation easier.
