SWG 2023-06-26
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-06-12.md)

# Agenda & Notes

## New items to discuss

- [Updates To deprecating exports proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/595)
  - Group to make individual comments where applicable

- David: [Extension maturity proposal](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/67RE3rOMQqClD6n-IlGgCA)
  - Chris will write an introduce

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- [ ] Split base proposal making progress: https://github.com/adamgundry/tech-proposals/blob/patch-1/proposals/accepted/050-ghc-base-libraries.rst. Feedback eagerly sought!
    - due to the cross-cutting character of the proposal, it doesn't "fit" nicely in GHC SC or CLC
    - re-using the HF TWG repo, but not a proposal
    - Chris will write an introductory paragraph and send it to Simon

- [ ] Add to `mtl` migration guide a way to work with prior and new versions
  - Previously holding the token: Chris

- [x] Examine TH users for possibility of `th-abstraction`
  - Previously holding the token: Trevis
  - Crystal Mika from Flipstone reports:
    - It appears that `optics`, `aeson`, `quickcheck` and `mustache` either already use `th-abstraction`, or do not have a straightforward path to using it.

- [ ] Template Haskell
  - Adam started looking into [#20828](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/20828) (adding field names to TH AST) at Zurihac
  - David mentions that adding `hlint` checks enforcing use of
    selectors instead of positional matching would be useful

## In progress projects
### Updates

  - Conversations about GHC nightlies
    - Previously holding the token: David
    - Matt is currently waiting on merge of https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-hs/pull/825

  - GHC API discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: David

  - Bulletin discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - [Creating and maintaining a set of hlint rules to promote stability](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/pull/14)
    - Previously holding the token: Trevis
    - Opened [issue](https://github.com/ndmitchell/hlint/issues/1440) asking if we can write rules for typeclasses.

## Parked Action Items/Projects due to expected absence of token holder

## New for next week
### Action items

### Discussion items
