SWG 2023-11-13
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-10-30.md)

# Agenda & Notes

## New items to discuss

- [Extensions and Warnings Proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/620)
    - Initial reaction: "oh no --- more language extensions to explain"
    - Warnings and language extensions "feel qualititively different".
    - Extensions: allow new things
    - Warnings: warn (or prevent) old things
    - Compiling with warning off gives same semantics as compiling with warnings on.  *All warnings are conservative*
    - If you compile with -XWarnWombat; and then suppress warnings, the same program will compile and run with the same semantics.   That is, all warnings remain conservative.

  Example from Orville:
  when:
    - condition: flag(ci)
      then:
        ghc-options:
          - -Wall
          - -Werror
          - -Wcompat
          - -Widentities
          - -Wincomplete-uni-patterns
          - -Wincomplete-patterns
          - -Wincomplete-record-updates
          - -Wmissing-local-signatures
          - -Wmissing-export-lists
          - -Wmissing-import-lists
          - -Wnoncanonical-monad-instances
          - -Wredundant-constraints
          - -Wpartial-fields
          - -Wmissed-specialisations
          - -Wno-implicit-prelude
          - -Wno-safe
          - -Wno-unsafe
      else:
        ghc-options:
          - -Wall
          - -fwarn-incomplete-uni-patterns
          - -fwarn-incomplete-record-updates

Under the proposal

    - condition: flag(ci)
      then:
        ghc-options:
          - -Wall
          - -Wcompat
          - -XNoIdentities
          - -XNoIncompleteUniPatterns
             ...
      else:
        ghc-options:
          - -Wall
          - -XWarnIncompleteUniPatterns
          - -fWarnIncompleteRecordUpdates

The CI flag is because the user might be compiling with a different verison of GHC, one that (say) didn't understand `-Widentities`.

Worry: a user might compile the package with an extra flag `-XIdentities`, or with a version of of GHC for which `-XIdentities` does something different.

Language extensions:
    - XMultiParamTypeClasses   in CI
    - But off in distribution
    Obv that would break

    - XWarnMultiParamTypeClasses in CI
    - but off in distribution

Claim: if -XWarnFoo works in CI, then `-XFoo` will work in distribution.
No need to look up "is this extension conservative?"

"We argue about extensions but not about warnings".  Do we like `BlockArguments` or `GADTs` or `TypeFamilies`. Is the value useful.   But we don't argue about `-Wname-shadowing` or `-Wincomplete-patterns`.   Switching on extensions "no by default"; switching warnings "yes by default".

Everyone agrees: making a language edition fix a set of *warnings* as well as a set of *extensions* is (highly) desirable.

david@flipstone.com

- [Template Haskell issue](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/24021)
  - Perhaps related to this [reinstallable base](https://edit.smart-cactus.org/h2z2ELauQs2vzhPDeUDr_g#) doc.

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous
- None

## In progress projects
### Updates

  - [Extension lifecycle framework proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/601)

  - Bulletin discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - [Creating and maintaining a set of hlint rules to promote stability](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/pull/14)
    - Previously holding the token: Trevis
    - Opened [issue](https://github.com/ndmitchell/hlint/issues/1440) asking if we can write rules for typeclasses.

## Parked Action Items/Projects due to expected absence of token holder

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
