SWG 2023-05-01
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-04-17.md)

# Agenda & Notes

## New items to discuss

- Recruit for this group
  - Ask CLC to have a representative?
  - We need more user opinions.  E.g. search for prolific authors on Hackage.  Hecate?  Adam B?
  - Post monthly updates

- Rebalance meetings for task progress vs task identification
    - Don't just want to be a talking shop -- want to Get Things Done
    - Track projects in repo

- GHC-internal modules [link to CLC thread](https://github.com/haskell/core-libraries-committee/issues/146)
  - Lack of tooling to state/track performance characteristics
  - Ben has a patch that checks for changes in `base` API: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/commits/wip/ghc-base
  - One issue with `ghc-base` is possible change in error messages https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/commit/fd7ac91eb5dbd061b8cb7d8ef35e90017105ea7c?page=3#5504a9447935fb91e9daad24a7c944a94fde4b60
  - Useful: module re-exports: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/wikis/module-reexports?version_id=87060cead2ead5f654c42c070c7c6913d2bdf806
  - Should we start by moving everything or nothing from `base` to `ghc-base`?
  - Useful: deprecated exports: details here: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/4879 (this ticket points to the relevant GHC Proposal)
  - all wired-in things and known-key things live in `ghc-base`, so this would unlock re-installable `base`.

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous


- [x] Add glossary page to ghc user's guide as discussed [last time](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-04-17.md)
  - Previously holding the token: Ben
  - RFC: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/merge_requests/10371

- [ ] Add to `mtl` migration guide a way to work with prior and new versions
  - Previously holding the token: Chris

- [ ] Examine TH users for possibility of `th-abstraction`
  - Previously holding the token: Trevis
  - Getting additional resource from Flipstone to look at this in the next few days

- [x] Ask Aeson for backport of TH issue disussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-04-03.md)
  - Previously holding the token: Trevis
  - Opened [issue](https://github.com/haskell/aeson/issues/1020)

## In progress projects
### Updates

  - Bulletin discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - [Creating and maintaining a set of hlint rules to promote stability](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/pull/14)
    - Previously holding the token: Trevis
    - Opened [issue](https://github.com/ndmitchell/hlint/issues/1440) asking if we can write rules for typeclasses.


## Parked Action Items/Projects due to expected absence of token holder

- Conversations about GHC nightlies
  - Previously holding the token: David

- GHC API discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: David

## New for next week
### Action items

- Ask if Julian and Bodigrim can meet next time to discuss ghc-internal modules.
  - Holding the token: Trevis



### Discussion items
