SWG 2023-08-07
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-07-24.md)

# Agenda & Notes

## New items to discuss

- [Extension lifecycle framework proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/601)
  - Under revision from David.
  - We are happy with "Stable" rather than "Mature", which seems to be what most people want.

- [GHC2021 and TypeOperators](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/issues/551)
  - This was not intenional
  - Provides reason for a new version

- [Naming proposal](https://github.com/simonpj/hf-tech-proposals/blob/ghc-module-naming-2023/proposals/0000-ghc-module-naming.rst)
    - SPJ now proposes:
        - `ghc-experimental`: use suffix `*.Experimental`.
            - E.g. `Data.Tuple.Experimental`
        - `ghc-internal` and `ghc-prim`: use prefix `GHC.Internal.*`
            - e.g.  `GHC.Internal.Base`.
            - We won't use a `.Experimental` suffix here.
            - Change package name to singular: `ghc-internal`
            - No reqt to signal the package name (`ghc-prim` vs `ghc-internal`) in the module name.  We can have `GHC.Internal` in `ghc-prim`.  Indeed we might want all these GHC-internal modules to be `GHC.Internal.*`.
        - `base`: stay with existing e.g. `GHC.Base`
        - `ghc` (the GHC-as-a-library API): has 700-ish modules (GHC itself) all starting `GHC.*`. The door open to:
            - new package `ghc-api` with a (more) stable API
            - module namespace within the current `ghc` package, e.g. `GhcAPI.*`
        - https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/snippets/5732

    - Group is happy with these proposals.

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- [ ] Add to `mtl` migration guide a way to work with prior and new versions
  - Previously holding the token: Chris

- [ ] Template Haskell
  - Adam started looking into [#20828](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/20828) (adding field names to TH AST) at Zurihac
  - David mentions that adding `hlint` checks enforcing use of
    selectors instead of positional matching would be useful

## In progress projects
### Updates

  - GHC API discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: David

  - Bulletin discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - [Creating and maintaining a set of hlint rules to promote stability](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/pull/14)
    - Previously holding the token: Trevis
    - Opened [issue](https://github.com/ndmitchell/hlint/issues/1440) asking if we can write rules for typeclasses.

## Parked Action Items/Projects due to expected absence of token holder

## New for next week
### Action items

### Discussion items
