SWG 2023-09-18
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2023-09-04.md)

# Agenda & Notes

- Thank you David all you have done!

## New items to discuss

### Non-exhaustive datatypes

From Ben (https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/9258)

> While working with the Cabal maintainers on the GHC 9.8 release we
> noticed that the Language.Haskell.Extension module poses a rather
> annoying problem for compatibility. Specifically, any constructors added
> to the `KnownExtension` type constitute a breaking change. This means
> that, to be PVP compliant, any GHC release which introduces new language
> extensions must be accompanied by a major Cabal version bump.
>
> This is quite unfortunate as it has long been our goal to decouple the
> release processes of Cabal and GHC. However, it seems likely that there
> is a solution close-to-hand: [non-exhaustive annotations a la Rust](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/attributes/type_system.html#the-non_exhaustive-attribute).
> By explicitly forbidding matches without a wildcard alternative we can
> avoid such additions being breaking.

Within a package (crate in Rust) the non-exhaustiveness pragma has no effect: only in other packages.

> Naturally, the design space here isn't entirely obvious. One question
> that sticks out to me is how a match author knows whether they have
> missed any constructors when they are forced to add a wildcard match.
> Regardless, it seems like there is the kernel of a good idea here. I
> think it would be worth discussing in our next meeting if possible.

Other alternative approaches:
* Define a package `ghc-extension-flags` that exports the data type; but make `cabal` *not* export it.  Now changes to the extensions data type will not make a major bump in `cabal`, only in `ghc-extension-flags`.
* Make the extensions data type be a newtype wrapper around `String`.
* Export lots of pattern synonyms instead of exporting the data constructors themselves.

Given three alternatives that do not require a language extension, do we need a language extension?



## Short-Term Action Items From Previous
- None

## In progress projects
### Updates

  - [Extension lifecycle framework proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/601)
    - After deprecation/removal of extensions, have a nice error message.
    - This is analogous to the `REMOVED` pragma for top level declarations.
    - https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/wikis/language-pragma-history
    - David is doing a major revision.  Three main critiques:
        - Problem doesn't exist
        - Please solve this other problem
        - The house in burning down and this won't really help.
    - Decouple "legacy" from other aspects.
    - Adam Gundry is now contributing to the working group
    - Target audience: semi-informed companies using Haskell and wanting guidance about what extensions are ... not "blessed" but... "stable" maybe?
    - Many extensions are useful and harmless (LambdaCase, MultiWayIf).
    - One answer: GHC2021.  Why not just instead make the case for GHC2023?
    - Possible answer: many extensions are harmless, but too numerous/superficial (?) to be in GHC2023.
        - GHC2023: "suitable" for non-experts.
        - "stable" extensions that are not "suitable" but are unlikely to change (e.g. UndecidableInstances)
        - Or "GHC2023 = good; XXX = non-problematic"
        - Can't have too many axes on which to rate each extension, or it'll just fall under its own weight.
    - "Deprecated" extensions should actually be deleted!   Difference between "deprecated" and "legacy".
    - Deprecated extensions are not warned about, apparently.

  - GHC API discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - HF to look at funding for this.
    - Previously holding the token: David

  - Bulletin discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-17.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - GHC warning policy document as discussed [previously](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-30.md)
    - Previously holding the token: Chris

  - [Creating and maintaining a set of hlint rules to promote stability](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/pull/14)
    - Previously holding the token: Trevis
    - Opened [issue](https://github.com/ndmitchell/hlint/issues/1440) asking if we can write rules for typeclasses.

## Parked Action Items/Projects due to expected absence of token holder

## New for next week
### Action items

### Discussion items
