---
tags: swg
---

SWG 2024-10-28
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2024-10-14.md)

# Attendees

# Agenda & Notes

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- Minor edits, discussion on [extension classification proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/669).

- Implicit `base` linking
    - Two possiblities:
        1. implicitly behave as if you had said `-package base-XXXX`; i.e. a *particular* unit-id; or
        2. implicitly behave as if you'd said `-package base`.

   In 9.12 you can't distinguish these two (since there is still only one `base`); but in the future there could be many.

   Fixing on `XXXX` makes precise what you get, without talking about package-database resolution questions.  This what GHC team is planning to do. See [merge request](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/merge_requests/13492)

   Users need to know which version of `base` is gotten when you don't specify `-package-anything`.   (Perhaps just in the user manual; e.g. [here](https://downloads.haskell.org/ghc/latest/docs/users_guide/9.10.1-notes.html#included-libraries).)

- HF critical infra page
  - Previously holding the token: JMCT

- GHC LTS
  - Previously holding the token: Ben

- SWG post for blog.haskell.org
  - In progress!
  - Holding the token: Trevis

## New Items to discuss

- [role of `ghc-experimental`](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/25326)

  * SPJ proposal:
    * Baseline position: `ghc-experimental` exposes *all the user-facing stuff that we (GHC team) want to expose, but that the CLC does not yet want to include in base*
    * The APIs in `ghc-experimental` have widely-differing stability; some have been stable for years, others are brand new.
    * `ghc-experimental`'s version bumps with every GHC release.
    * The GHC team makes reasonable efforts not to change the `ghc-experimental` API, but nothing like the efforts that the CLC makes to keep `base` stable.
    * It might help to publish one or more shims that expose APIs (that are not desired in `base`) that have somewhat stronger stability goals.  That wouldn't be hard, but would take design and negotiation.  We have some examples already: `ghc-heap`, `ghc-compact`
    * Add warnings (via deprecations) saying that if you import (say) `GHC.Experimental.Heap` you'd be better off importing `GHC.Heap` from `ghc-heap`; doing so reduces your exposure to version bumps.
    * Optionally:  eventually remove  from `ghc-experimental` APIs that are available via the above shim packages.  Advantages: less confusion for users; and reduction in the need to bump the version of `ghc-experimental`
    * Perhaps the GHC team should, more proactively than in the past, identify stable APIs and group them into shims.  E.g. `ghc-rts`
    * Shim packages should come with explicitly-stated stability goals; e.g. changes will typically be deprecated before changing.


- `StarIsType` deprecation [issue](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/25040)
  - Have a deprecation cycle

## In progress projects
### Updates

- Draft tooling recommendation
  - Holding the token: Trevis


- JMCT: What would a GitHub mirror that posts to GHC GitLab look like?

- [Simon's list of GHC-related stability issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sX_rXHx8Mj3Kae9GalR2BwZ5-xzl7UpnpMBwl4dqsWY/edit?usp=sharing)
- Jappie: catagorizing head.hackage https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xNAn7qE1X7waI7lAIh9lOUKGuEb9HnRwGWNicaywASk/edit?gid=251085624#gid=251085624

## Parked Action Items/Projects

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
