---
tags: swg
---

SWG 2024-09-30
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2024-09-16.md)

# Attendees
- Trevis Elser
- JMCT
- Ben Gamari
- SPJ

# Agenda & Notes

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- Minor edits and encourage discussion on [extension classificaiton proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/669).
  - Bring up at ghc weekly
    - Expecting feedback soon.

- SWG post for blog.haskell.org
  - In progress!
  - Holding the token: Trevis

## New Items to discuss

- [hoogle.haskell.org](https://discourse.haskell.org/t/hoogle-appears-to-be-down/10408) went down.
  - Infrastructure stability/availablity is important to community. Can SWG help somehow?
  - HF critical infra page
    - status.haskell.org?
      - Who runs this?  If anyone
      - Still lists darcs? Is that available?
      - Links to https://stats.uptimerobot.com/6YOwyfoV7k which appears broken (is that the same as http://auto-status.haskell.org/?)
    - Include how to get in touch with those involved in running/maintaining.
    - Holding the token: JMCT

- [More discussion on GHC releases](https://discourse.haskell.org/t/priorities-for-upcoming-ghc-releases/9605)
    - Some misunderstandings here?
      - Perhaps a feeling among non-GHC devs that GHC team prioritises agility and experimentation over stability.
      - Feedback cycles not matching release cycles.
        - E.g. industrial users are on a lagging cycle and/or cannot be current until certain issues are fixed
      - More frequent releases may actually *help* stability, by highlighting failures earlier, when they can more easily be corrected.
      - Many users are still dealing with the in-the-past-lack-of-attention-to-stability technical debt.  *Things really are better now*.

    - One possible action:
        - Support up to 3 branches other than HEAD
        - Of these, **designate one as LTS**.
        - Support LTS for (say) at least 2 yrs beyond release, a year after designation.
        - As LTS branch becomes older, the bar for backporting goes up...
        - ...and in any case only applies to Stable features.
        - Talk with ghcup team about when to designate a new LTS release, and which -- so that it can be the recommended release from moment of designation.
          - List of necessary but not sufficent requirements
          - e.g. Stackage LTS exists for this release
          - e.g. works with HLS
          - more controversial: buildable on tier-2 platforms

    - Problem: if we (implicitly) encourage users to do "big jumps" from one LTS release to the next, they won't get deprecation warnings, etc. from intermediate releases.
    - Ben and Andreas will discuss the meta-proposal described here (see "one possible action" above):
      - Perhaps designate a release (well into its lifecycle) as an LTS
      - Stable features in LTSs receive backports for a year after designation


## In progress projects
### Updates

- Draft tooling recommendation
  - Holding the token: Trevis


- JMCT: What would a GitHub mirror that posts to GHC GitLab look like?

- [Simon's list of GHC-related stability issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sX_rXHx8Mj3Kae9GalR2BwZ5-xzl7UpnpMBwl4dqsWY/edit?usp=sharing)
- Jappie: catagorizing head.hackage https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xNAn7qE1X7waI7lAIh9lOUKGuEb9HnRwGWNicaywASk/edit?gid=251085624#gid=251085624

## Parked Action Items/Projects

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
