---
tags: swg
---

SWG 2025-05-26
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2025-05-12.md)

# Attendees

- Trevis Elser
- Teo Camarasu

# Agenda & Notes

## New items

- Teo has written up a GHC proposal to spllit out some stable libraries from `template-haskell`: https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/696

- ghc-api stability

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- hie file format stability question:
  We have been experiencing pain on every ghc upgrade with hie files. We use stan and weeder which both demand the version of hie files match exactly the ghc version. Is there anyone working on making those files use a stable format?
  - JMCT to bring up with Andreas Klebinger
  - https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/18329

- Do the changes to GHC that require a `cabal` update also effect `stack` in the same way?
    - JMCT to bring up with Mike P.

- See what the HF can do about the gap in cabal release management.
    - JMCT to investigate.

- Minor edits, discussion on [extension classification proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/669).


## In progress projects
### Updates

- Draft tooling recommendation
  - Holding the token: Trevis

- [Simon's list of GHC-related stability issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sX_rXHx8Mj3Kae9GalR2BwZ5-xzl7UpnpMBwl4dqsWY/edit?usp=sharing)

- Jappie: catagorizing head.hackage https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xNAn7qE1X7waI7lAIh9lOUKGuEb9HnRwGWNicaywASk/edit?gid=251085624#gid=251085624

## Parked Action Items/Projects

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
