---
tags: swg
---

SWG 2025-03-03
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2025-02-17.md)

# Attendees

- Trevis
- SPJ
- Ben
- Jappie

# Agenda & Notes

- Administrative point, can someone else run the meeting for the 17th of March?
  - Will skip this meeting

- Need a clear plan for reinstallable base and template-haskell
  - If we articulate a plan, maybe volunteers would step up to execute.
  - https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/24021
  - Plan: https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/wikis/template-haskell/Plan-to-Stabilise-Template-Haskell
  - e.g. https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/20828
  - Also issue of HIE files -- how stable is the HIE format?
      - Pretty stable; but we do extend it from time to time, which is usually a breaking change.
      - We want an old version of `weeder` (say) to work with a new version of GHC (and its HIE files)
      - Maybe provide a HIE libarary that can read lots of HIE versions into TH syntax?

  - Invite Teo to speak with us on the next steps, at 31st or later
    - holding the token: Ben

- Paraphrasing a comment made: GHC 9.8 is abandoned, the status says no further releases.
  - Some communication clarity is needed.

  - Status page release messaging

	Trevis has found that users are consistently misunderstanding our current status page phrasing.

	Arguably conflates two axes: stability and release planning.

  - Taxonomy 1 (Trevis)

    * Blue circle: Under active development, Suitable for use (9.12, 9.10, 9.6)
    * Green circle: Suitable for use (9.8)
    * Red square: Not recommended for use (9.4, 9.2)

  - Taxonomy 2 (Trevis)

    * Suitable for use
    * Not recommended for use

  - Taxonomy 3 (Python)

    * Under development (listed as 'Feature')
    * Bugfix
    * Security


  Classes of security issues in order of increasing severity:
    * Affecting compiler (e.g. compilation is exploitable)
    * Affecting bundled libraries (e.g. `filepath`); two sub-classes
      * Affecting only reinstallable libraries
      * Affecting non-reinstallable libraries
    * Affecting compiler output

  - Taxonomy 4 (Trevis + Ben)
    - Next planned release
	  * (link to milestone and if exists link to tracking ticket)
	  * "None planned"
	  * "None"
    - Status
	  * Blue circle: Suitable for use (9.12,9.10,9.8,9.6)
	  * Red square: Not recommended for use (9.4,9.2)
	Some advantages of this approach:
	  - Does not mix concerns
      - No new columns/complexity displayed
	  - two visual separations for suitability so hopefully anyone that has visual issues can still tell them apart
	  - allows for nuance around further releases, i.e. if one is not expected versus one that will not happen

- [GHC release policy doc](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc-hq/-/merge_requests/38)

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- hie file format stability question:
  We have been experiencing pain on every ghc upgrade with hie files. We use stan and weeder which both demand the version of hie files match exactly the ghc version. Is there anyone working on making those files use a stable format?
  - JMCT to bring up with Andreas Klebinger

- Minor edits, discussion on [extension classification proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/669).

- SWG post for blog.haskell.org
  - In progress!
  - Holding the token: Trevis

## In progress projects
### Updates

- Draft tooling recommendation
  - Holding the token: Trevis

- JMCT: What would a GitHub mirror that posts to GHC GitLab look like?

- [Simon's list of GHC-related stability issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sX_rXHx8Mj3Kae9GalR2BwZ5-xzl7UpnpMBwl4dqsWY/edit?usp=sharing)
- Jappie: catagorizing head.hackage https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xNAn7qE1X7waI7lAIh9lOUKGuEb9HnRwGWNicaywASk/edit?gid=251085624#gid=251085624


## Parked Action Items/Projects

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
