---
tags: swg
---

SWG 2025-03-31
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2025-03-03.md)

# Attendees

- Trevis
- Jose Calderon
- Ben Gamari
- SPJ
- Dan Firth

# Agenda & Notes

## New items

- [cabal and ghc 9.12](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/10836)
    - Cabal 3.14 released (a few months ago) specifically allowing usage with newer GHCs.
    - Earlier versions of Cabal cannot work with 9.12.
        - Generally each new version of GHC will require a new version of cabal.
        - Why? One reason is that Cabal knows the list of extensions that GHC supports (and earlier GHCs, and other Haskell impls).
        - This coupling seems unnecessarily tight -- **indeed we'd like to say that upgrading GHC does not *usually* require a new version of cabal**.
        - (There may be some one-off reasons that would force an upgrade of cabal, but it should be the exception rather than the rule.)
    - Alas, had regressions, and is unusable with 9.12.
    - Actual issues are fixed; but cabal team lacks resources to make a release.  Indeed cabal lacks a release manager at the moment.
    - A cabal release can take a month.  (Effort or elapsed?  We aren't sure.)   Quite a lot of manual QA to do.
    - Julian  produced a quick-fix for 3.14 which he release via `ghcup`, namely `cabal 3.14.1-p1`.  (Debian does things like this too; but it'd be better do to it upstream.)
    - NB: there is a difference between `cabal-install` (the command-line build tool) and `cabal` the library.   Forcing an upgrade of the library is less disruptive than forcing an upgrade of the command-line build tool.

## Short-Term Action Items From Previous

- SWG post for blog.haskell.org
  - Posted now!

- hie file format stability question:
  We have been experiencing pain on every ghc upgrade with hie files. We use stan and weeder which both demand the version of hie files match exactly the ghc version. Is there anyone working on making those files use a stable format?
  - JMCT to bring up with Andreas Klebinger
  - https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/18329

- Do the changes to GHC that require a `cabal` update also effect `stack` in the same way?
    - JMCT to bring up with Mike P.

- See what the HF can do about the gap in cabal release management.
    - JMCT to investigate.

- Minor edits, discussion on [extension classification proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/669).


## In progress projects
### Updates

- Draft tooling recommendation
  - Holding the token: Trevis

- JMCT: What would a GitHub mirror that posts to GHC GitLab look like?

- [Simon's list of GHC-related stability issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sX_rXHx8Mj3Kae9GalR2BwZ5-xzl7UpnpMBwl4dqsWY/edit?usp=sharing)
- Jappie: catagorizing head.hackage https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xNAn7qE1X7waI7lAIh9lOUKGuEb9HnRwGWNicaywASk/edit?gid=251085624#gid=251085624

## Parked Action Items/Projects

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
