---
tags: swg
---

SWG 2025-07-07
==============

Meeting URL: https://meet.jit.si/StableHaskellMeetBiWeekly

Previous meeting [notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/stability/blob/main/meetings/2025-06-23.md)

# Attendees

- Trevis Elser
- Teo Camarasu
- Ben Gamari
- Jose Calderon
- Jappie Klooster

# Agenda & Notes

## In progress projects
### Updates

- [extension classification proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/669)
  - under review of steering committee

- [template haskell stable split proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/696)
  - under review of steering committee

- [hie library split](https://gitlab.haskell.org/jappeace/ghc/-/merge_requests/1)
  - https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/18329
  - We should comment with the design on the above ticket

- [Simon's list of GHC-related stability issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sX_rXHx8Mj3Kae9GalR2BwZ5-xzl7UpnpMBwl4dqsWY/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Work on reinstallable base is picking up steam (Earliest ETA is 9.16)
  - Reinstallable template-haskell also being worked on (Needs investigation but _might_ work for 9.14)

- Jappie: catagorizing head.hackage https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xNAn7qE1X7waI7lAIh9lOUKGuEb9HnRwGWNicaywASk/edit?gid=251085624#gid=251085624

## New items

- QualifiedLiterals [proposal](https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/pull/698)
  - Appears that stability related concerns are already being brought up. Raising so we can look as a group.

## Parked Action Items/Projects

- Draft tooling recommendation
  - Holding the token: Trevis

## New for next week

### Action items

### Discussion items
